Ondrej Mandula CorrectionsPlease clarify or correct the issues listed below.Introduction: Clarify the precise goal or goals of the project: make a distinction between source localization, structure inference and density estimation, or at least discuss this matter so it is clear what your methods need to achieve. In the rest of the thesis make sure it is clear which problem is being addressed by each experiment.Page 1.  Visible light 400-700nm?fixed Page 1 invasive for the sensitive → invasive for sensitive- fixedPage 1 further discussed →discussed further- FixedPage 2 speculation who → speculation as to who- FixedPage 2.  Abbe, but where does Rayleigh fit in to the diffraction limit?- This is discussed in section 1.4 “Resolution limit”Page 2. After “optical nanoscopy”, need references.- FixedPage 3.  Is the PSF a function of the specimen or the microscope, or both?- Added some discussion after Eq.1.1Page 3 is the image of the specimen → the image of the specimen is- Fixed Page 3.  Why do you show me the Gaussian response?  You say on Page 4 that it is popular to do this, but some may disagree.- The Gaussian approximation of the PSF is often used in optical microscopy. I plotted the Gaussian approximation with the Airy function to highlight the differences between the two (mentioned in the legend of the figure 1.1). Page 3, 4.  What does Z depend on?  It strikes me that the choice of Z has a very significant effect.- Z is the normalising constant (I added the integral in the text after the Eq. 1.2), therefore it parametrically depends on \alpha from Eq.1.3.  Page 4. Equation (1.4): strictly speaking n should be n(lambda).  How would this change NA and therefore the PSF?Page 4.  What is diffraction?Page 5.  You say that noise may alter the resolution significantly.  Can noise ever improve the resolution?- “Alter” replaced by “deteriorate”Page 6.  Hardly any references…- Added reference related to Fluorescence:Pawley JB ed. (2006) Handbook Of Biological Confocal Microscopy. And review article about fluorescent proteins:Fernández-Suárez M, Ting AY (2008) Fluorescent probes for super-resolution imaging in living cells. Nature reviews Molecular cell biology 9:929–43.And three more references to super-resolution techniques using photo-switchable fluorescence proteins. Page 7.  Typo “fluorescein”.- ?Page 11 Here or elsewhere. Additional (e.g. 4-5 pages) literature review is needed covering an overview of other related areas of microscopy and literature covering related methods on those areas  inc spectral microscopy, use of ICA, NMF etc. in other areas of microscopy, the results they find and potential implication of those results for this work, the general background for NMF methods (there are multiple NMF methods, and the relative appropriateness of each approach for this setting.   Page 11 the NMF algorithm → the NMF algorithm of \ref{} - there are many.- Fixed. Page 9.  Could get rid of large blank space.Page 12.  Why in localisation microscopy is the improvement limited to a factor of 2?- It is not limited by a factor of 2. I wrote that LM can achieve resolution below the classical resolution limt ~\lambda/2. I changed the text to clarify this. Page 13.  What do you mean by “excessive”?- Replaced “excessive” by “long” and mentioned a typical range of the acquisition timePage 13.  You have already introduced PSF.  You also say that “often a single psf is assumed…”.  Need a reference for this.- References added. Page 15.  Figures are very small, and without scale bars.Page 16.  Again, could get rid of large blank space.Page 16.  Your algorithm accounts for Poisson noise – could it account for other types of noise?- The algorithm can be modified to account for Gaussian noise (minimizing the sum of square of differences between data and model).Page 17 Constraint → Constrained.- fixedPage 18.  I’m on page 18 and I’m not clear why you want to use NMF rather than PMF.  What does NMF do that PMF doesn’t?Page 21.  Figure 2.1. left… where?- “left” replaced by “left side”Page 21.  Need more detail on sparsity and how this compares to real specimens containing fluorophores.  Realistically, how do you determine s in practice?- I probably do not understand the first question. The sparsity is applied to the separated sources not to the specimen with fluorophores (raw data). - the desired sparsity of the estimated can be computed from a simulated PSF, for example. Page 22.  How many photons do you need to acquire an Airy disk?Page 22. Again, the images are tiny.Page 23 Figure 2.3 shows estimated W → shows the estimated W- fixedPage 24. Why did you choose a background of 100 photons/pixel?- as mentioned in Sec.2.5 "Simulations" this corresponds to measured experimental values for QD labelled data. 
Page 24.  Typo “Richardson”.
- fixed
Page 26.  You choose n=1.5.  Is this for the QD or for the specimen?
- n=1.5 is the refractive index of the immersion oil (between objective and cover glass). QDs are dried directly on the surface of the coverglass.   
Page 27.  You describe the projection corresponds to a wide-field image.  I don’t know what pixel diameter you are using, but is a camera likely to have 15 pixels within 1.2 um?  How does one achieve diffraction limited resolution with a camera when the pixel size is ~6um?
- the pixel size of the camera in the sample plane is 80 nm (=1.2um/15), see table 2.1
- camera pixel size is demagnified by the objective to the sample palain. In our case 80nm pixel size is below the nyquist limit 120nm (computed from the abbe resolution limit in section 1.4).
- added not in the text in section 2.5 "Simulations".
Page 27.  How do you achieve your “randomness” in your datasets?
- the locations fot he sources were generated from homogeneous poisson process (added text in 2.5.1)
Page 28.  You do not discuss this figure at all – what is the message here?

Page 29.  Why does this not look anything like a hash ‘#’ symbol?

Page 34.  Another large blank space.
Page 35.  What is excessively large computational time?
- replaced by "long computational time" and added note on complexit of the updates with respect to the number of pixels
Page 35.  For the “stitching” process, how long does this take and so is it compatible with live cell imaging?
the division to the patches and sthitching is done post-acquisition. It does not change the acquisition time. For our experiments the acquistion time was approximately 1 min. We assume that during this time the cell does not move. It might be applicable to "slowly moving" cells…
>>> comment on this in the thesis
Page 36.  “Estimation of K is difficult for noisy datasets”.  What would you describe as “noisy” – is this subjective or numerical?  
- we performed the simulations for simulatins with parameters (number of detected photons, background, etc as shown in table 2.1) corresponding to the experimental conditions. For these conditions I found it quite difficult… I mentioned it in the text in section 2.7.2 Estimation of.. 
Page 39 Please discuss the use of ACR for estimating K in a real data scenario.
- added short comment about this >>> add more
Page 40.  Why choose delta, 1.5delta and 2.0 delta?
- as shown in fig. 2.15 for 2.0 delta situation, all the methods delivered very precis estimate. therefore I chose it as an upper limit. For 1.0 delta all the mothods more or less failed and therefore I set that as a lower limit. I choose delta 1.5 as an intermediate value between 1.0 and 2.0. 
Page 40. Results on iNMF before discussing it is peculiar. Please at least forward reference.
- fixed, added forward reference
Page 41 “We have not found good results” Explain why .

Page 42 Algorithm 1. Sorting – decreasing or increasing?
- fixed (added decreasing order in the text)
Page 42 are still allowed to change during the iterations. But do they actually change?
- yes they do change. I added comment on it in section 2.7.3.
Page 43.  Fig 2.16 is too small to tell what is going on – step for a hint?
- I added more comments about the figure to the figure caption. 
Page 43 iNMF leads to better local minima: unsubstantiated claim. Provide substantiation.

Page 44 - 46.  How do you assess ‘credibility’?  I am concerned that you are compromising some good and rigorous statistics with some vague or subjective assumptions. Please clarify a quantitative measure you 
could use to evaluate credibility and demonstrate it does: This need systematic evaluations over many runs and data samples not just visual inspection from one selected run.

Page 46 Not very visible. Visibility is not an issue. Clarify this statement. 
- fixed
Page 49.  Example – figure 2.20.  The RHS *looks* better than the LHS, but do you have quantitative evidence to describe this numerically, for example?

Page 51.  Does the ‘#’ symbol really appear so bright in the ‘cross’ as in figure 2.22?  I suspect not.
- I am not sure I understand the comment. The # symbol appears brigher at the 'cross' as the density is higher at the crossing - there are sources from the vertical and horisontal bars at the same time. 

Page 52 “...recover a great variety of blinking patterns.” Where is this demonstrated? Refer.
>>> simulate data with different blinking patterns

Page 53.  Blinking.  Is this really so ‘on’ off or not?  How does the blinking amplitude compare to the fluctuation in the detector noise or in the amplitude fluctuations in laser intensity over time?
In realilty the blinking entirey binary. For this reason I considered bliking behavior shown in Fig. 2.23d with some intermediate values between maxima and minima. I comment on it in section 2.8.1.
Page 58. Density recovery is unmotivated. Ensure this is made clear here or in the introduction.

Page 63.  Need details here on the time taken to run different numbers of iNMF iterations.  ##scratch that – it’s on page 66. ~200 mins for one dataset?  Ouch!

Page 71.  Is this an 8-bit image?  Does the number of bits matter?
Page 71.  What is the size of the image – need scale bar.

Page 79.  This is great in 2D, but what about the third dimension?

P83 How would you measure resolution (eq 1.6) empirically?
- the resoluiotn in the evaluated samples can be, for examle, line profile of lineare structures (such as we did in Fig.4.2j).
 
P83 Practical camera grids?
?

P83 Please talk me through how arbitrary this is, and how close to 'optimal' is possible.
- As I write in section 2.9 we demonstrated on simulated data that iNMF can separate two sources as close as 40nm for some specific parameters of the simulation. These parameters corresopnd to the dashed green curve in Fig. 3.2a. The "natural" resolution limit (intersection with the blacked dotted line - FREM=d) for this curve is ~20nm.
>>> write this in the text
P84 How likely is it that two sources will have equal PSFs?

For high quality objective and homogeneous embedding medium we can assume the PSF to be tranlationally invariant. If the two point sources are in the same focal plane then they will have equal PSF.  

P84 Eqn 3.1. Do not write down the inequality (which is non-standard) You could use \preceq which is more standard, or better still IMO just state in 3.1 that Q-I^{-1} is positive semi-definite.

This is noted below eq.3.2.
P84 “an area of the kth pixel”-> the region of the kth pixel. 

fixed
P86 Best not to use lambda for intensity (e.g. eq 3.10)
I am sorry.
P89 Eqn below 3.21 does not make sense: the statement is “If the intensity states were known” but then there is an expectation over the intensity states. Also 3.13 does not sufficiently define I_\Lambda. Define that here. State the Fisher Information you want to compute and show that results in the expected Fisher Information. 
>>>
p91 What is the purpose in oversampling?
To approximate the continuous PSF recoreded on the pixelised grid.
P94 and throughout chapter. There is some lack of clarity about what FREM measure is used where. Ensure there is no ambiguity. 
I added upper superscripts to the FREM in teh text to make ti more explicit which FREM I am referring to. I also tried to clarify this in the introductory page of the chapter.
P96 Please talk me through fig 3.3?
3.3a and 3.3b show FREM surfaces for static and blinking situation, respectively. The red plane is located at the distance "d" from the origin, where "d" is hte separation of the two sources. The intersection of the red plane with black FREM surface show where FREM is equal to the separation of the sources. (I called this "a natural resolutio limit" in sec 3.1). The area, where the black surface is above the red plane correspond to the siutation wehre the standard deviation of the estimation of the separation of the two sources is higher then the actual separation (very noisy data). On the other hand, the area, wehere the balck FREM surface is below the red plane, corresponds to situations where the separation of the two sources can be estimated precisely - (with low std when compared to the separation). The 3.3c and 3.3d shows the surfaces from teh top to show that for bliking sitation the area, where the separation can be estimated precisely is lareger then for the static situation. 
p98 In fig 3.5 is this really 'measured'?
It is measured from the simulated data with different realisation of Poisson noise. 
P98 If there is a dip at d=300nm, how does this compare with the classical Abbe-modified Rayleigh relation at 633nm & 1.25 NA?
For our simulation (625nm, 1.2NA) the Abbe resolution criterino is 625/(2*1.2)=260nm. 
P99 With so few pixels/unit area of specimen, how accurate are your results?
The accuracy of the result (estimation of the distance between the two sources) reslates to FREM as FREM spcify the standard deviation of the estimator. The pixellation it taken into account throught Eq. 3.11.
P108 Need references: you didn't invent shot noise!
I added referece. I think don't claim invetniton by saying …noise often called "shot noise"…
P110 What was your role in this work c.f. your co-authors?
- G. Krampert, I. Kleppe, and R. Heintzmann has designed the ELYRA setup with scanning head. Me and Martin Kielhorn have developed of the elecronic part of the setup synchronizing  the line scanning with shwitching of the laser light. I have taken the experimental data and optmized teh acquisition procedure (on/off ratio, number of scanning lines, reduced photobleaching by randomizing hte phases in the scanned pattern…). I have evaluated data together with Kai Wicker and Rainer Haintzmann and I have written the manuscript. All the authors discussed the manuscript before submission. 

  How does this fit in with the rest of your thesis?  And how does it fit with Taejoong Kim et al 2009 Meas. Sci. Technol. 20 055501 doi:10.1088/0957-0233/20/5/055501Enhancement of fluorescence confocal scanning microscopy lateral resolution by use of structured illumination?  
- As I write in towards the end of the chapter 4.1 Kim et al work has proposed the technique and demonstrated it on simulated data. We made the  

And MyoungKi Ahn et al 2011 Meas. Sci. Technol. 22 015503 doi:10.1088/0957-0233/22/1/015503Cross structured illumination for high speed high resolution line scanning confocal microscopy?
>>>
P112 How did the image rotator function? Spec of cylindrical lens?
The image roator is an "Abbe–Koenig" reflecting prism. However, Zeiss asked us not to disclose this… 

P113 This is a very strange figure – the microscope is neither inverted or upright! Also, presumably it is used in fluorescence mode, but you do not mention this. Fix this figure so the depictation is of a real microscope.

P115 How did you choose/prepare this specimen?

P116 Difficult to compare e&f with g&h.  Is it really better?  Please convince me :-).

p116 Although data acquisition took 75s, how long did the SIM reconstruction take?

P117 Why is wf-sim more noisy than ls-sim?  Is the true for non-sim?  Is it a function of the detection, rather than excitation method?

P118 What happens in z?

Appendix A. I strongly advise starting with the Poisson noise model (which can be motivated in this situation), and deriving the NMF from that.  At the moment this appendix is arbitrary and unmotivated as there is no motivation for minimizing A1.General remarks: the thesis is low on references.  Refs required:p3, for PSF description.P4, for Rayleigh resolution limit.P5 For fluorescence microscopyp83 onwards: needs more refs on FREM & origin.Chapter 4: needs more references for context.  It reads like a scientific paper rather than a thesis chapter. See above re: Kim & Ahn papers.